The next topic in user experience is Provenance.
Now provenance is a really huge topic when it comes to blockchain because it's
used a lot in supply chain to figure out where things are made et cetera.
But provenance also applies in your relationship as a DAP developer and the user.
One of the things that the user does not know when dealing with
a blockchain app is where the data is going and where its coming from.
In a typical app,
maybe it's a web app or a mobile app,
it's pretty clear to them when they are posting something that is going to be public.
It's also pretty clear to them that
the owning entity of the application controls that data.
So if you're on Facebook,
you make a post, you have that.
If you are a Google search,
you know that that's being logged et cetera.
But on the blockchain,
it's much more complicated.
One of the things that most users are not aware of,
that all user data;
everything on the blockchain is public.
So they might inadvertently submit something that is going to end up being publicized.
The other thing is they don't know where
the data that they are looking at is coming from.
So what you need to do is to make sure that as the user is using your DAP,
it's clear to them what data is coming from the blockchain and is public,
what data is coming from a database and is potentially private or semi-private.
Finally, and this is very important,
what data is coming from a third party Oracle that you have no control over.
That's a high-risk area because as we learned in the prior lessons,
you can have oracles that abuse
their privilege and might try to gain the system and provide misinformation.
So if you have a DAP view where you are combining information from the blockchain,
from a third party source such as an Oracle,
and perhaps also from a corporate database et cetera,
it behooves you to make sure that the user clearly
understands that perhaps you have labels or you have colors,
things like that to clearly delineate that data so there's
no confusion on the part of the user about where things are coming from.